rethinking professional development for
teachers four critical components the
growth and development of people is the
highest calling this quote by Harvey S
Firestone speaks to the importance of
rethinking professional development for
teachers if teachers are to prepare an
ever more diverse group of students for
much more challenging work for framing
problem finding integrating and
synthesizing information creating new
solutions learning on their own and
working cooperatively they will need
substantially more knowledge and
radically different skills than most now
have and most schools of Education now
develop professional development should
be developed around four foci it should
be learner centered knowledge centered
Assessment Center and community centered
let's take a brief look at each of these
professional development should be
learner centered professional
development should include active
learning and draw on the learners prior
knowledge experience and cultural
background it should focus on the needs
and interests of the learner encourage
self-directed learning and allow
learners to construct their own meaning
for example professional development
should allow teachers interested in
similar topics to form a learning
community to increase their knowledge
for instance if three teachers are
experiencing challenges with autistic
students these teachers could form a
learning community
invite a professional to conduct a
specialized workshop implement
suggestions from the workshop and
discuss outcomes this is just one
example of how professional development
can be learner-centered can you think of
others professional development should
also be knowledge centered effective
professional development requires
well-organized bodies of knowledge that
support planning and strategic thinking
promotes learning that leads to
understanding and transfer and provides
expert peers who guide the educators in
their attempts to develop new knowledge
an example of this professional
development should increase the teachers
knowledge base in a way that leads to
transfer of this knowledge a great way
to accomplish this goal is by having
actual practitioners demonstrate how
they apply theoretical research-based
knowledge in their classrooms these
expert teachers can guide their peers
through the transfer of theoretical
knowledge what other ways might you
design professional development in ways
that they acknowledge by priority this
focus provides opportunities for the
feedback and revision Alliance
assessment with learning goals it
includes both formative and summative
assessment
it also takes into consideration of
assessment for understanding not just
memorization promotes self and peer
assessment and encourages
evaluation and change it is very
important to the professional
development assesses teachers learning
and growth this assessment should be
based on learning goals since
professional development should focus on
learning for transfer the demonstration
of the teachers achievement should be
done after teachers had the opportunity
to apply their learning to the classroom
context for example if teachers attend a
conference on incorporating reading
throughout the curriculum they should
have time to experiment with strategies
assess their effectiveness and reconvene
with experts for feedback and evaluation
how might you design professional
development to include assessments of
teacher learning finally professional
development for teachers should be
community centered this promotes a
collaborative learning environment that
offers support for developing learners
this environment encourages experts to
share their expertise it invites
learners to Barham successful practices
from each other
includes dialogue and open communication
that allows for sharing of experiences
and the development of communities of
practice professional development for
teachers should promote their
involvement in learning communities
learning communities can offer support
expertise and peer feedback for example
online learning communities like
inspiring teachers are resources of
professional networks for beginning
teachers similar communities can be
started within schools and districts and
meet virtually or in person just make
sure the communities are meaningful and
relevant what are some ways you can use
learning communities to meet your
professional development goals
thank you for watching our video
creators of the video are graduate
students in the College of Education at
Texas Christian University
Victoria Renault master student Meg
Whitman fel PhD student and Althea
Gaston PhD student if you'd like to
continue this discussion please contact
us at rethinking PD for teachers at
gmail.com with special thanks to our
professor dr. sherry Reynolds and our
media expert Joanna Schmidt from the new
media writing studio